[GH#87271] Add information about the openshift-service-ca.crt ConfigMap (#87272)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/customize-certificates-access-default-service-serving-configmap.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/certificates/service-serving-certificate.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="access-default-service-serving-configmap_{context}"]

> = Access the service CA bundle in the default configmap

Author: Done

A pod can access the service CA certificate by mounting the default

> `ConfigMap` object that exists in every project. The service CA

Reviewer: "project" and "namespace" are synonyms in OpenShift, but using namespace is more consistent with Kubernetes docs. You might clarify: `“…exists in every namespace (project).”`

Author: As the section has changed since I opened this and now has a usage example, I've copied over the same usage example from using a custom configmap.

certificate is in the `service-ca.crt` key of the `openshift-service-ca.crt`
config map. Access to this CA certificate allows TLS clients to verify
connections to services using service serving certificates.

.Procedure

. View the config map to ensure that the service CA bundle is available:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get configmap openshift-service-ca.crt -o yaml

Reviewer 2: Probably needs a namespace set here?

Reviewer 3: Yes, it would technically be better to use a specific namespace, but if you don't specify any, it returns the one on the default namespace / current project.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get configmap openshift-service-ca.crt -o yaml
----
+
The CA bundle is displayed as the value of the `service-ca.crt` key in the YAML output:
+
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: v1
data:
  service-ca.crt: |
    -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
...
----

. Mount the config map as a volume to each container that exists in a pod by configuring your `Deployment` object.
+
.Example Deployment object that defines the volume for the mounted config map
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: my-example-custom-ca-deployment
  namespace: my-example-custom-ca-ns
spec:
  ...
    spec:
      ...
      containers:
        - name: my-container-that-needs-custom-ca
          volumeMounts:
          - name: trusted-ca
            mountPath: /etc/pki/ca-trust/extracted/pem
            readOnly: true
      volumes:
      - name: trusted-ca
        configMap:
          name: openshift-service-ca.crt <1>
          items:
            - key: ca-bundle.crt <2>
              path: tls-ca-bundle.pem <3>
# ...
----
<1> `openshift-service-ca.crt` is the name of the default config map.
<2> `ca-bundle.crt` is required as the ConfigMap key.

> <3> `tls-ca-bundle.pem` is required as the ConfigMap path.

Reviewer 4: The `CalloutList` Vale hit is a new rule, and we do need to address it before merging. (The existing docs are being gone through and the file you copied it from will eventually be updated as well).

I recommend that you:

1. Remove the <1> <2> and <3> callouts from the YAML
2. Update the descriptions below to look something like this:

```suggestion
* `openshift-service-ca.crt` is the name of the default config map.
* `ca-bundle.crt` is required as the config map key.
* `tls-ca-bundle.pem` is required as the config map path.
```

Reviewer 4: You can either take care of this now, or we can help clean it up for you after we've gotten the final SME reviews/approval.

Author: Done. The callout list doesn't actually do much, so I've just removed it.
